evacuation warnings by Israel to people
in Gaza ahead of attacks have contained
a host of Errors BBC analysis has
revealed warnings contained
contradictory information were confusing
and sometimes misnamed districts experts
say such mistakes could violate Israel's
obligations under international law the
Israel Defense Forces rejected any
assertion the warnings were confusing or
contradictory Stephanie heti
reports has been under attack in
December Salah Amed didn't know he was
subject to an evacuation warning we
didn't have internet connection and the
communication Services failed when he
did get online he found this two months
into war with Hamas Israel presented
this map a grid system dividing Gaza
into hundreds of numbered blocks it was
under International pressure to be more
precise in warning people away from the
most dangerous
battlefields then it issued 100 of posts
on social media and sent millions of
leaflets and phone messages referencing
this grid system we analyzed all the
warnings published on the idf's Arabic
social media channels since the 1st of
December as well as the limited number
of leaflets we could find photographed
and shared online These Warnings
contained Vital Information to help
people get away from danger but they
also contained errors we counted 26
separate warnings and 17 of them
contained errors that made parts of them
contradictory or confusing here you can
see the idf's Arabic Twitter account in
January at the international court of
justice Israel's lawyers presented One
of These Warnings as an example of the
lengths it was going to to protect
Palestinians we found two errors in that
warning block 55 and 99 were listed in
the text of the post but they weren't
shaded on the map this type of error
happened at least 12 times in one
warning some of the blocks listed in the
post post were on the opposite side of
Gaza to those highlighted on the map in
another the map on the post doesn't
match the grid system this is block 2220
in the map on the post but on the grid
system this is block 2220 and blocks
2221 to 2225 when presented with this
evidence the IDF didn't address mistakes
in maps specifically but said the text
of the post was sufficiently clear and
it said these posts were only part of a
multifaceted and extensive effort to
move ions out of Harm's Way Salah
eventually found his block but it was
cut in two his family were unsure what
to do he left with his children but his
in-laws stayed put until fighting
escalated further if warnings are
systematically unclear or it is not
possible for civilians to make sense of
them for instance because they lack
internet access or These Warnings
contain errors that lead civilians to
places where they're less safe then the
warnings do not fulfill the proper
function that they ought to have under
International humanitarian law the IDF
say it's clear that many people moved to
safety even after the warnings in our
analysis it said IDF warnings have saved
countless lives in Gaza Stephanie
Hagerty BBC News